- [Instructor] In Spring Boot 2.0,
the entire metric system changed
from the Dropwizard metric system that we saw
with Spring Boot 1.5 to now Micrometer.
And this was a change that I feel
not only improved Spring Boot,
but improves the exporting of those metrics.
Micrometer is a great platform for that.
Let's talk a little bit about what Micrometer is.
So, at its core, it's an instrumentation
library for the JVM.
But more important than that,
from an operations perspective,
besides being this core instrumentation,
it also gives us third-party monitoring
system support through modules.
So, if you're using tools like Prometheus or Datadog,
you can export your metrics very easily
out of a Spring Boot application into those tools
through the use of these modules
that tie into the core Micrometer.
What's even better is the way
that Micrometer is handled in Spring Boot.
If you have Actuator already turned on which,
let's be honest, you should be doing that
with Spring Boot applications,
you're going to get Micrometer for free.
It just comes along with the actuator plug in.
In addition to that, it's going to be auto-configured.
You are going to get a Composite MeterRegistry
by default out of the box.
In addition, if you add, let's say the Datadog or Prometheus
or any of the other tools that are supported by Micrometer,
if you add that to the Classpath,
Spring Boot is going to look at it,
notice that it's there and auto-configure what you need
in order to use configuration properties
to ploy to your instance of those applications
that are going to do that metrics aggregation for you.
Now, this MeterRegistry is injected into your bean classes
when you want to tie into a custom registry.
You can create gauges and counters from that registry
and manipulate them in your beans as you see fit.
This is really good when you're trying to keep track
of things like, how many times does a value change
and if some value that is critically your operation,
you can leverage that through a MeterRegistry metric
like a counter, and then expose that through
the Actuator metrics endpoint (mumbles) JMX system
or to your metrics collection like Prometheus.
Now, this are leveraged and reported based on the metadata
that you have when you create that gauge or counter.
Again, you can see how to do all of this information
in my Spring Boot essentials course.
Now, out of the box you get a lot of preconfigured
metrics as well and this is where a lot of the value
of this auto-configuration comes from.
Figuring a web application, you're going to get
metrics from MVC, if its reactive or in Webflux.
If you're calling other restful endpoints,
you're going to get metrics around this (mumbles) to be quiet
whether to RestTemplate or WebClient.
All of that's going to come for free and they're going to be
exposed on your metrics endpoint.
You're going to get stuff around Cache,
and DataSource specific information
including Hibernate for relational databases.
In RabbitMQ metrics, again, you're going to get them
out of the box for free
if you've got AMQP on your classpath.
Now these metrics endpoint is based on Actuator,
and they've restructure to do a little bit (mumbles),
I want to talk about adherence that has an Actuator
because this is really where you'll use it.
The Actuator metrics endpoint is just be a dump
of all the actual raw metrics.
Now they've sub-categorized the base on the metrics names
so you can dig in deeper.
And this is really designed for a JMX consumption model,
but it is there in a web format if you turn it on.
And that's something that you can do
through the configuration properties for Actuator.